>>[THEME MUSIC]
>>And I think many
people today don't
know what to believe anymore.
>>People are basically
going to keep on
to help uncover what
really happened.
>>It felt like something
was watching me.
>>We weren't given
all the information.
We weren't told
the entire story.
>>Our help is in the
name of the Lord.
>>FATHER HALLORAN: Who
made heaven and earth.
>>The Lord be with you.
>>FATHER HALLORAN: May
He also be with you.
>>[GROWLS]
>>FATHER HALLORAN:
Do you hear that?
>>Don't listen.
>>(SPEAKING IN DEMONIC
VOICE) Remember me, Halloran?
>>[YELLS]
>>[LATIN SPEECH]
>>GEORGE NOORY: Well, that
was an excerpt from the movie,
"Exorcist House of Evil."
How would you like to go to
sleep after seeing that movie?
Kind of chilling.
The filmmaker, of course,
who put that all together
is Jeff Lewis from Saint Louis,
one of my neck of the woods,
of course.
That was a kind of a
scary scene, Jeffrey.
>>JEFF LEWIS: Oh, yeah.
And we were kind of worried
about Hayden, the young boy,
kind of going through all
that in the actual room.
So we had prep him and
his mother on the events
that had taken place, and
assured him that he was OK--
and his mother that he was OK.
>>GEORGE: How'd you
find the little guy?
>>LEWIS: He submitted his
resume and a head shot.
And he just had such a fantastic
look, as to somebody from 1949,
and was just a neat little
kid when he came in.
So we cast him immediately.
>>GEORGE: I hope he doesn't
have nightmares now.
>>LEWIS: No, we talked to
him, and he's all good.
He's fine.
>>GEORGE: He didn't
answer the phone like,
(SPEAKING IN GRAVELY VOICE)
what do you want, Jeff?
>>LEWIS: Nope, no.
No Redrums, no nothing.
He's doing good and was
at the premiere last night
at the Saint Louis Film
Festival and doing good.
>>GEORGE: Great.
Lots of interest in evil, "The
Exorcist," stories like that.
How come it's so big these days?
>>LEWIS: I think
everybody's kind
of looking for what's beyond.
Everybody's always had
that-- does life truly end?
And I think that looking for
things like that and spirits
and demons, kind
of proves the fact
that there's life beyond what
we know in the physical form.
>>GEORGE: Let's go back and
talk about the actual story
that the book "The
Exorcist" was written about,
by William Blatty, and,
of course, the movie
"The Exorcist" with Linda Blair.
>>LEWIS: Linda Blair, right.
>>GEORGE: It was a
real story, wasn't it?
>>LEWIS: Right, yes.
The actual events took place.
They did take some licensing.
Linda Blair played
the girl, in the film.
But--
>>GEORGE: Spins--
I'll always remember
her head spinning around.
>>LEWIS: The spinning
head and the pea soup--
that's the two things.
But the real case
was a young boy.
It did start in Maryland,
where he and his family
saw carvings in his stomach.
And this all took place after
an aunt, and elderly aunt,
had given him a Ouija
board for Christmas.
>>GEORGE: Uh-huh.
>>LEWIS: She passed away
several months later,
and that's when she started
speaking to him from beyond.
Once they got the carving
in the stomach that said,
"Louis," that drove the family
to come to St. Louis to seek
help from the Jesuit priests.
And that's what brought them
to St. Louis and to the house
in Bel-Nor.
>>GEORGE: Do you think that
they originally thought either
the kid was
self-mutilating himself,
or that somebody else would
have carved that on him?
>>LEWIS: No, I think back
in 1949, none of that
was back then.
I think today, people would look
as if it's a self-mutilation
or schizophrenia.
But back in 1949, that really
wasn't-- that wasn't an issue
and a social issue that I
think people even dealt with.
It's more of a common thing
today that we look at.
But back in 1949, it was
more of a spiritual thing.
The thing that they
did find interesting,
that the carvings weren't
from an exterior carving,
they were in an
interior carving--
coming from the inside.
>>GEORGE: The inside out, yeah.
>>LEWIS: So that also takes
it from being the kid doing it
to himself.
>>GEORGE: There were a
couple priests involved
in the exorcist--
>>LEWIS: Correct.
>>GEORGE: --and the exorcism.
One was in St. Louis.
He died.
I tried to interview
him years ago.
>>LEWIS: Father Bowdern?
>>GEORGE: Yeah, absolutely.
It was a real story.
And it really scared
a lot of people.
They tried to exercise
him in the house,
and they did work on that.
But they also moved him to
the old Alexian Brothers
Hospital in Saint Louis--
>>LEWIS: Right.
>>GEORGE: --put him in a
room, and what happened there?
>>LEWIS: Well, they did-- they
worked on him in the house.
Things-- once he got
to the house, started
to intensify to the
point-- and this
was his aunt and uncle's house.
So the family--
once things really
started to intensify-- because
it just wasn't the two priests.
It was seven, eight priests.
>>GEORGE: They were all--
>>LEWIS: They were there all
day long, 24 hours a day,
in shifts and doing this.
So once it finally
became so traumatic
to the rest of the
family members,
they figured they
had to move him.
They put him in a private
wing of the hospital
to where they could
monitor him 24 hours a day
and have constantly
bombarded by the priests.
And they finally exorcised
the demon, so they thought,
out of him.
>>GEORGE: And then
the hospital comes in.
>>LEWIS: Well, and then the
hospital shut that wing down.
>>GEORGE: Yeah.
>>LEWIS: It hadn't been
opened from the '50s
until, I believe it was '85
or so, when they tore it down.
>>GEORGE: And then I think
they've torn the building down.
>>LEWIS: Yeah.
And the interesting
story about that
was, when they went to
knock down the hospital,
they just went in with
the regular cranes
and knocked the hospital down.
That section of hospital
they could not knock down.
So they had to go
to extreme measures
to get that particular
section to be knocked down.
But before they did all that,
they got rid of the furniture.
And that's when they found
Father Bowdern's diary
that he was keeping
through the entire process.
And it was locked
in a desk drawer,
and that's where they found
the diary-- of which we found
and used that as a
template for what
was going on in the house and
the real things that happened.
So there was no
spinning head, but there
was levitations
and extreme power
by this boy and multiple
voices and different voices
that he wouldn't know.
>>GEORGE: Did the priest,
in his notes, seem scared?
>>LEWIS: I think his
faith was tested.
And he-- in the readings,
it doesn't come off
that he's scared,
but he's definitely
worried about the other family
members, as well as the boy.
Because these are things
that he had not experienced.
When you start getting
beds levitating and--
>>GEORGE: Yeah.
>>LEWIS: There are
stories where the kid just
used several
fingers to throw off
grown men against the walls.
I mean, then it
starts getting to--
>>GEORGE: Truly amazing.
>>LEWIS: --something
more powerful
than just a normal boy.
>>GEORGE: The little
boy is now an adult.
I think his name is Roland Doe.
>>LEWIS: Well, that's the
name that the chruch--
>>GEORGE: Or is that the John
Doe that they've given him?
>>LEWIS: Yeah, that's the name
that the church has given him.
And they've gone to
great pains to keep
that name disclosed,
because they
didn't want him to be bothered.
>>GEORGE: And he's never
gone public, has he?
>>LEWIS: He's never gone public.
The only things that we were
able to find out about him
is that he became a
lawyer in Washington,
and a very prominent lawyer.
>>GEORGE: DC?
>>LEWIS: Yes.
And his life has been fine.
There's been no
relapses or recurrences.
So he's doing, to the best
of everyone's knowledge--
>>GEORGE: He's going to
become the Antichrist.
>>LEWIS: Yeah.
Yeah.
>>GEORGE: Who knows?
>>LEWIS: He's doing well.
>>LEWIS: Stranger
things have happened.
>>GEORGE: He obviously knows
that he was the little boy who
went through this exorcism.
Right?
>>LEWIS: He does know that
he was the little boy that
went through it.
And we've-- through research,
we have learned that he
doesn't really remember
a whole lot about things.
He remembers bits and pieces.
>>GEORGE: Really?
>>LEWIS: It's almost
like, kind of,
being in a coma, to
where he remembers--
he fades in and out of
the events that took place
over those months.
So during the days, when
things would be quiet,
he remembers more
times like that.
When things would start to pick
up with the possession, that's
kind of when, you know,
his mind would black out,
and he just kind of has
loss of time and memory
of those events.
>>GEORGE: Let's take
another clip from the film.
>>[THUNDER CLAP]
>>[THUMP]
>>[LOUDER THUMP]
>>[THUNDER]
>>[THUMP]
>>GEORGE: And, of
course, that was
a clip from "Exorcist House
of Evil," Jeff Lewis' film.
And, Jeff, just
to set the stage,
that was a scene from later
on in that house, right?
>>LEWIS: Correct.
That's a present-day scene.
We start the movie off just
kind of giving the audience
a taste of what was
going on in 1949,
and then we progress
to the present day
when Amy takes over the house.
>>GEORGE: What's become
of the house to date?
>>LEWIS: Well, today,
somebody does live in it.
And he enjoys the fact that it
was the real Exorcist house.
He doesn't want to have--
>>GEORGE: Does he have parties?
>>LEWIS: He does have parties.
And he doesn't want
to know it's haunted.
We would try to explain to him--
because we would shoot all day,
and he would leave
the house for us.
And we had such a small crew.
And we would try to tell him
things that would happen to us,
or things we would hear,
and experiences we had.
And he's like, I really
don't want to know.
He's like, if I really
think this place is haunted,
I'm going to have to move.
So, he likes the fact that
it's the Exorcist house,
but just doesn't want to
know it's haunted, so.
>>GEORGE: I know this past
Halloween, "Destination
America" aired a live
exorcism from that very house.
>>LEWIS: Right.
>>GEORGE: And, of course,
it was television,
and it was-- some things
were forced, I think.
Nothing really happened.
They tried to give you the
impression that something did,
but it's very difficult to
capture things on live TV.
But I did get the
feeling, Jeffrey,
that there's still something
weird about that house.
>>LEWIS: There is.
And I think there is
something left over.
I think, when you have
traumatic experiences in places,
events are captured
in time and a place.
And we ran into
several instances
while we were shooting
and actually left
those in the film.
We caught different
voices on our audio.
Some voices that we couldn't
hear until later on--
>>GEORGE: Later on when
you listen to it, yeah.
>>LEWIS: --that we went.
And we actually, one night,
we were all sitting there
in the bedroom where it
actually took place and heard
a blood-curdling scream.
The entire crew heard it.
The actors heard it.
We all kind of stopped.
And nobody could figure
out where this came from.
We would see doors close.
We saw--
>>GEORGE: Creepy.
>>LEWIS: --a little
image of a boy
up in a window, when
nobody was in the house.
And so I decided-- I told
the director, I said,
these are things I want
to be left in the film.
They have nothing
to do with the film.
>>GEORGE: Right.
>>LEWIS: They don't
work in the scene.
>>GEORGE: Just let them show up.
>>LEWIS: Just let them go.
Just like whatever happens,
happen, and leave it be.
>>GEORGE: And you said,
during the original situation
for the little boy,
it happened because he
was given a Ouija board.
We've got a little clip from
the movie about a Ouija board.
>>[TYPING]
>>[ELECTRICITY BUZZES]
>>GEORGE: Jeff, I've got to tell
you, I'm no fan of Ouija boards
at all.
I had a bad experience back in
one of my studios in St. Louis
a long time ago.
Never again.
You brought a Ouija board here
for us to kind of look at.
But that's how it all started
in the original Exorcist case,
right?
>>LEWIS: Correct.
Yeah, the boy was given,
by his aunt, a Ouija board
for Christmas, of all things.
>>GEORGE: Merry Christmas.
>>LEWIS: Yeah, exactly.
Welcome to the demon world.
And she passed away
about six months later,
and once she passed
away is when they
started getting contact who
they believed was from her.
And her form of communication
was the scarification
on the boy, which drove
them to come to St. Louis
to try to figure
out how to end that.
>>GEORGE: Did they ever find out
who the demon might have been?
>>LEWIS: Not to my knowledge.
When they were
talking to the boy,
there were instances
where he would
be speaking in different
voices at the same time.
>>GEORGE: Different tongues.
>>LEWIS: There
was one case where
he was having three
different conversations,
at the same time,
coming out of his mouth.
So they know there was
more than one demon in him.
They said there could have
been as many as three to five.
So it was just an interesting--
that nobody's ever really
been able to peg it down
to one particular demon
or get a name, which
they do try to do.
>>GEORGE: Yeah.
Exorcists try to
get a name from you.
They want that name.
>>LEWIS: Yeah, and that was
the thing we were always
trying to search for, was
there ever a name to be given.
And there was never one.
>>GEORGE: What do you
think of possession?
What do you think is it?
What's happening?
>>LEWIS: Uh.
If you were to ask
me before this film,
I would have said it's-- you're
dealing more with a mental
issue, you're schizophrenia.
But after going through this
and doing all the research,
I believe there is
something to that.
And I believe there
is a dark side
and there are demons out
there, as well as angels.
The one story that I
always listen to and took
great interest in, was when
the boy was at the Alexian
Hospital, the night that they
exorcised the demons from him,
supposedly the Jesuit
priests in the church
were around the
church that night.
And there was, I
think, four of them.
And they saw the Archangel
Michael walking down
the center aisle.
>>GEORGE: Whoa.
>>LEWIS: And they said
it just so happened
to correspond with when
the exorcism supposedly
finished in the hospital.
So now, whether
Michael the Archangel
had anything to do with it--
>>GEORGE: Sheesh.
>>LEWIS: --but the
coincidence that these priests
did notate that they did see
Michael the Archangel, who they
believed, walking
down the center aisle
and disappear once
he got to the altar.
>>GEORGE: It's a battle
between good and bad, isn't it?
>>LEWIS: Yes.
>>GEORGE: Constantly.
>>LEWIS: Yes, I do
believe that now.
I never believed, in
the past, of ghosts.
I was more of the kid that was
always into aliens and things
like that.
But ghosts, no.
But working in that
house has definitely
changed my perception on that.
>>GEORGE: All right.
Well, let's take a look at a
possession clip from the movie,
"Exorcist House of Evil."
>>FATHER HALLORAN: You've
never seen these before?
>>AMY: No.
She's always had
her arms covered.
T-E-S. Aunt Margaret?
>>AUNT MARGARET: Who are you?
>>AMY: I'm Amy.
I know you don't remember me,
but I need you to remember.
How did you get these
scratches on your arm?
Who did this to you?
>>AUNT MARGARET: I
don't know who you are.
(SPEAKING IN DEMONIC
VOICE) I remember you.
>>GEORGE: Well, that
was pleasant, Jeff.
(SPEAKING IN GRAVELY
VOICE) "I remember you."
>>LEWIS: Oh, yeah.
Last thing you want to hear.
>>GEORGE: So that was the demon
from the original "Exorcist"
in that woman, who
remembered that priest.
>>LEWIS: Right.
Right, from the past.
Because, in the beginning
scene, the little boy
makes the same statement
that he remembers him.
And so Father Halloran is
haunted and pretty much chased
by this demon.
>>GEORGE: We're going to show
one last clip, in a moment,
on that movie, but I don't want
to give it away at the ending.
So it looks like what you do
as a director and producer is,
you took the original
story of "The Exorcism,"
moved it into the house where
things occurred, and brought it
into current times.
>>LEWIS: Right.
Right.
Myself and the
director, David Trotti,
we sat down and
tried to-- we didn't
want to do just a story
of the 1949 exorcism.
We wanted just to kind of
do a brief story of that
to bring the
audience up to speed
of what this house represents.
And then we brought
it in modern time,
so we could kind of see
where has this house gone--
in the journey of this house.
Because, to us, the house was
another actor in the story
and what's happened to it.
And, for the longest
time, the house
had sat vacant before the
current owner had bought it.
Because nobody wanted
anything to do with the house.
>>GEORGE: Why don't
they just level it?
>>LEWIS: Well, you
know, I don't know.
>>GEORGE: There's
obviously something
still going on in that house.
>>LEWIS: There's
something still going on.
During the filming,
we would talk
to the neighbors on
both sides, and actually
in the whole street,
and everybody
has stories of that house.
They know when the owner is
gone, and they'll hear things.
And they'll see
things in the window.
>>GEORGE: Creepy.
>>LEWIS: Yeah.
>>GEORGE: You think they'd
like that house leveled?
>>LEWIS: No, I don't.
I think they
actually enjoy the--
>>GEORGE: They
like the notoriety.
>>LEWIS: --being in
that neighborhood, yeah.
I think it really,
kind of, has become
the staple of the neighborhood.
>>GEORGE: I know that area.
It's near the airport.
>>LEWIS: Right.
>>GEORGE: And that airport
area-- Bridgeton for example--
is under fire right now
because of a burning landfill
that's getting close
to a nuclear dump.
>>LEWIS: Right.
>>GEORGE: And so that's
got its own evils--
>>LEWIS: Yep.
>>GEORGE: --in its own way.
We've got a final
clip from the movie.
Let's take a look.
>>LUKE: It's just a
ghost scratching letters
into your skin because of
a spirit talking thing.
>>AMY: It's a spirit
talking board.
>>LUKE: Whatever, Amy.
It sounds crazy.
>>AMY: You think I don't
know how it sounds?
I think something-- someone is
trying to tell me something.
>>LUKE: What?
>>AMY: I don't know.
But I have to find out.
As crazy as that sounds,
I need to know what it is.
>>LUKE: And what if you don't
like what the answer is?
>>GEORGE: Look, you know
what it's like to win Emmys.
That one might
qualify for one, huh?
>>LEWIS: Yeah.
With Star Trek, I was nominated
six times for Star Trek,
and you know, so.
But yeah, we're
happy with the film.
And we're looking
forward to doing more.
And people keep
asking if we're going
to go back and do another one.
So, yeah, we're trying to
consider if we should go back
and tempt fate again.
>>GEORGE: You got me on the set
of one of the Star Trek films
a long time ago.
>>LEWIS: I did that.
And brought in Jolene
Blalock to the show,
when you first moved out
to LA and started the show.
Yeah.
>>GEORGE: Absolutely.
Yep, you sure did.
Scott Bakula, I think,
was on during that time.
>>LEWIS: Scott Bakula
who is from St. Louis.
>>GEORGE: Yeah.
Absolutely.
There is a lot of great
talent from St. Louis, Jeff.
>>LEWIS: Oh, there is.
And that's why I
started the production
company in Saint Louis and
want to film more back there.
Because we have so many
great things to see and do,
and it just gives a
new look to films.
Because we've all seen
LA before, in every film.
>>GEORGE: You've always
kept your St. Louis roots.
>>LEWIS: I have.
I have.
And it's just
important to me, now,
to start something there and
use local talent, to show off.
Because I'm proud
of where I'm from.
And I think we can do good work.
I still have my LA
friends, and they all
want to come to
St. Louis and work.
In this film, I brought Connor
Trinneer, from Star Trek fame,
to be in the film.
But, yeah, I have more
friends that want to come,
because they enjoy being here.
>>GEORGE: Well, I get a kick--
being a broadcaster-- of being
from an area-- though
I was born in Detroit,
I moved to St. Louis in '79.
But I'm in an area
where Joe Garagiola came
from, Jack Buck came
from, Joe Buck, his son,
Bobby Costas, who's
a friend of mine.
And to be a part of that
family is just a great feeling.
>>LEWIS: Oh, yeah.
And there's a lot
of great people.
We've got John Goodman, and
Laurie Metcalf, and Jon Hamm.
>>GEORGE: Absolutely.
>>LEWIS: And there are
so many good people.
And they all love St. Louis.
They still reside there
and love to come back.
And so my mission is to keep
the production company going
and bring more work
back to St. Louis--
>>GEORGE: Good for you.
>>LEWIS: --and
just have some fun.
>>GEORGE: Good for you.
And Vincent Price
used to be there.
>>LEWIS: Vincent Price, yep.
He's a local St. Louis,
and always, always
happy to hear "Thriller."
>>GEORGE: Jeff, do you
think it's one entity,
or do you think there's a
series of demons hanging around?
>>LEWIS: I've gotta believe--
after listening, and reading
the notes, and what
would happen to the boy--
I've got to believe
that it's multiple.
I don't think it's just one.
The voices we caught were two
different voices on audio.
Just the things we saw--
the little boy we saw.
So I think there might be a
little something with that.
>>GEORGE: They just
bombarded him, didn't they?
>>LEWIS: Yeah.
Yeah.
So I think there's definitely
more than one entity
to that house.
But we did nothing to evoke it.
I know that our actress would
not step foot into the house
until her priest gave
her permission to do it.
>>GEORGE: Amy?
>>LEWIS: Amy.
And she brought crucifixes
for everybody, and you know.
>>GEORGE: Wow, she was serious.
>>LEWIS: Oh, yeah.
She was serious.
And the thing is,
nobody would ever--
during the day, everybody would
go in and out of the house
and be pretty much OK with it.
Once night falls,
nobody ever wanted
to go back in that house.
Nobody wanted to that
last guy to go in
and make sure all the lights
turned off and lock up.
>>LEWIS: Well, I gotta tell you.
You have a Ouija board here.
And I'm a little uncomfortable
with this thing being here.
I don't like these things.
>>LEWIS: Yeah, this
was the one that we
made for the made for the film.
And so they used this
throughout the filming of it.
>>GEORGE: I'm not even
going to touch it.
And this box here.
What's this?
>>LEWIS: That was an
antique exorcist kit
that we found, that
the director found.
And he wanted to use this
in the exorcism scenes.
So we were able to set this
up and bring some authenticity
to the movie and to the
rituals that were being done.
>>GEORGE: Interesting.
Like, what would
have been in here?
>>LEWIS: In there,
you would pour in oils
or burn some incense in there.
You've got little
decanters where
you would keep holy water.
>>GEORGE: Holy water.
>>LEWIS: You definitely
have your crucifix.
You have candle
holders for candles.
Just a lot of different little
boxes and trinkets and--
>>GEORGE: It looks authentic.
>>LEWIS: Oh, yeah.
No, it's definitely
an antique kit.
>>GEORGE: Do you think this
was really used in exorcisms?
>>LEWIS: Yeah.
I think--
>>GEORGE: Oh, my god.
>>LEWIS: You know,
back then, I think
a lot different priests
kind of kept those around.
And they're getting
harder to find these days.
Luckily, we were able to
scrounge one up for the movie.
>>GEORGE: Jeff, any
concern that what
might have been in
the house-- what
may still be in the house-- may
have attached itself to you?
>>LEWIS: No.
I never had any
concern with that.
I know some of the
actors were concerned.
Connor Trinneer, for
example, his wife
would not let him come
back to their house
until she smudged him--
>>GEORGE: He was cleansed.
>>LEWIS: Yes, exactly.
So people do take that serious.
But, as far as I was
concerned, I knew I was safe.
And so I've never
had any worries.
And nothing bad has happened
since we did the film.
Heard no creepy sounds
around my own house,
or anything like that.
I actually had my
son on the set,
helping me out during
his summer vacation.
So, yeah.
It was, for most of us,
it was a great experience.
And some were a little
scared, but nothing's
happened to anybody.
Everybody's happy and healthy,
and they're all doing good.
>>GEORGE: What can you conclude
about what this all is?
What's out there?
>>LEWIS: I just believe
that the house, it had--
I think it was fine before,
but once the boy went,
I think with the--
>>GEORGE: He
brought it with him.
>>LEWIS: He brought it with him.
And with the exorcism,
I think the demons
that they did exorcise out
of him stayed at the house.
Even though they didn't
get the final ones out
till he got to the
hospital, I think the ones
that they did get out in the
house, stayed with the house.
So and that's what also leads
me to believe that there
were more than just a few.
>>GEORGE: That could be.
>>LEWIS: Because
I think the ones--
they did get some out at
the house, but they stayed.
They didn't transfer
over to the hospital.
And then the ones that stayed
with the hospital, I think
is what made it hard
to tear it down.
>>GEORGE: I can assume the
scariest room in the house
was that bedroom.
>>LEWIS: The bedroom was
the second-scariest room
in the house.
>>GEORGE: Oh, really?
>>LEWIS: You know, knowing that
the exorcism had taken place,
definitely when we all got
into the house, we thought,
oh, my god, this is it.
We were wrong.
When we went to the
basement, that's
where the scariness happened.
We actually found a
wall in the basement
that the current owner
of the house uncovered,
after he pulled some old
paneling off the wall.
And there was a
drawing, done by child,
which we show in the movie,
of a character named Harold.
And it was a stick figure
drawing, drawn probably back
in the '50s.
>>GEORGE: Maybe by the boy?
>>LEWIS: Maybe by the boy.
And it had a devil on
one shoulder and an angel
on another.
>>GEORGE: Wow.
>>LEWIS: So once
we all saw that.
We all concluded--
>>GEORGE: Wow.
>>LEWIS: --the basement was
the scariest room of the house.
>>GEORGE: Sheesh.
>>LEWIS: I mean, the whole
house itself is creepy.
But, yeah, the basement
really took a turn for us,
because we weren't
expecting that.
So when you're surprised by
a drawing like that, yeah.
That definitely--
>>GEORGE: That's kind of weird.
>>LEWIS: --put a new thing
into what we were doing.
>>GEORGE: The current ownership
of the house-- I mean,
has that person felt
anything bizarre or strange?
>>LEWIS: He's told
us stories, but he
has excuses of why this may have
happened, or that's happened.
He's never chalked it
up to it being haunted,
or anything like that.
>>GEORGE: Did you have
to rent the house?
>>LEWIS: Yes.
We rented the house from him.
We would tell him what days
we were going to be there.
Because we had definitely
other locations to shoot at.
And, on the days we would shoot,
he would pack his stuff up,
and he'd leave the house
and just gave us free reign
to go wherever we wanted.
>>LEWIS: So, with you,
the "Destination America"
live exorcism from
the house-- the guy's
making some money on the house.
>>GEORGE: He's making
a little money, yeah.
It's nice for him
that he's doing that.
Like I said, he enjoys the fact
that was the Exorcist house,
or it is the Exorcist house.
>>GEORGE: I bet he
would love to turn it
into a tourism attraction.
>>LEWIS: Now, I don't think
his neighbors would love that.
>>GEORGE: No.
>>LEWIS: But he does
tell me at Halloween--
because it's on a one-way
street into a cul-de-sac--
and it becomes very
crowded around Halloween.
Lots of drive-bys, lots of
people getting out of cars,
taking pictures in front
of the house on the lawn.
>>GEORGE: I wonder
what would prevent him
from doing that and turning
it into a national tourist
attraction.
>>LEWIS: I've often
wondered that.
>>GEORGE: At 10 bucks
apiece, or something.
>>LEWIS: And I've talked
to him about that.
We talked about
many ways that he
might be able to make
money off the house.
And I know I actually went
home with a huge bucket of dirt
and a brick from the house.
>>GEORGE: Oh, great.
>>LEWIS: So I got a
piece of the house, now.
>>GEORGE: I shook your hand.
>>LEWIS: Yeah.
I'll send you some
dirt and a brick.
>>GEORGE: No, no.
That's OK.
It's bad enough you have this
Ouija board on our desk here.
>>LEWIS: Well, I'll
take this with me.
I won't--
>>GEORGE: What drives you, Jeff?
Especially into this topic.
>>LEWIS: Like I
said, I've always
been interested in aliens.
And so I just want to
explore the other side
and see really what's out there.
Because I've always been
interested in all the stories.
And in St. Louis we've
got such great places
like the Lemp Mansion.
We have the McPike Mansion.
And you hear of all--
you know, Illinois
is a pretty haunted state.
We've got Decatur
and a lot of things.
And so I just want to
kind of delve in to see,
are these things really real?
Because I want to look at
these things and figure out,
are these real?
Are these just stories?
>>GEORGE: What do you think?
Are they real?
Or are they stories?
>>LEWIS: With this house,
like feel it's real.
>>GEORGE: Yeah.
>>LEWIS: I feel it's real.
I've been to other
locations where
people say they're
extremely haunted,
and I've never felt a
thing, seen anything.
So it's hard for me
to make a judgment
based on those stories.
But to go in the Exorcist
house, and hear the voices,
and hear just sounds
we could never
explain at night,
and things like that,
made me a believer
that there are things.
>>GEORGE: When you look at
the house from the outside--
>>LEWIS: Mm-hm.
>>GEORGE: --does it seem to look
back at you, like it's alive?
>>LEWIS: It does.
Because you've got the
two corner windows.
You've got this
little round window
in the middle that's
almost like a little nose.
And at night, we would
have-- if you just
had an off light in the
hallway, it would kind of shine
through the windows and stuff.
And it would just get this
creepy little look, you know.
Now whether that's--
>>GEORGE: Like it's laughing
at you, or just looking at you?
>>LEWIS: I think, just
looking and studying
who's coming to the house.
>>GEORGE: Yeah.
>>LEWIS: And I think, everybody
also projects their own fears
upon that house.
So I think the more
scared you are, I think,
projects itself of what
you see in that house.
>>GEORGE: Well, I always
wondered about demons.
You don't kill them.
You merely move them from
one section to another,
from one individual
to who knows what.
So, when it leaves the
body, the possessed
body, where does it go?
>>LEWIS: Well, and in this
case, I think it went and--
>>GEORGE: Stayed with the house
>>LEWIS: --stayed
with the house, yeah.
It has to have, I think,
some form of containment--
whether it's a body,
whether it's a building.
You know, it just
needs that energy.
>>GEORGE: That attachment.
>>LEWIS: And I think that
the ones that they got out
of the boy during that
time, I think it found
its attachment to that home.
And it's happy being there.
>>GEORGE: Have any
of your crew members,
or actors and actresses, had
any fallout from this film,
in terms of something
grabbed onto them afterward?
>>LEWIS: No.
They're all doing really good.
>>GEORGE: Everybody's good.
>>LEWIS: Everybody's
happy, and--
>>GEORGE: You haven't seen
any personality changes
in people, or anything?
>>LEWIS: No, no.
Everybody's good, and
they're all looking forward
to doing the next one.
So they're all willing
to travel with me
and see what other creepy
place I take them into.
>>GEORGE: You like
the unusual spots now.
You need to go the Mansfield
institutions and places
like that.
>>LEWIS: Oh, yeah.
That's the thing.
I've always been a huge fan of
the show and listening to you.
And that's what's kind of really
got me into this and the movies
that I want to produce.
Because I really want
to kind of find out.
I listen to the
stories on your show,
and I really want to see--
are these just stories,
or is there something
really behind these stories?
>>GEORGE: Yeah.
No, we've known each other
for 12, 13 years, Jeff.
>>LEWIS: Yes.
But, yeah, so that's my pursuit
and my interest and passion.
And so, hopefully we'll
keep making films.
We'll make an interesting
film in an interesting place
and kind of blend
the two together.
>>GEORGE: Well, if
people want to watch
"Exorcist House of Evil,"
how do they do that?
>>LEWIS: Well, right now, it's
going to be video-on-demand,
and we're trying to work out
deals with any of the cable
companies.
>>GEORGE: OK.
Great.
Sounds exciting.
>>LEWIS: Yeah.
>>GEORGE: Good luck
with your work.
>>LEWIS: Well, thanks for
having us, and we appreciate it.
>>GEORGE: Spooky stuff.
>>LEWIS: Yeah.
>>GEORGE: I shook
his hand, but I'm
going to wash it, right
after this program.
I'm George Noory, and
this is "Beyond Belief."